Hi, and welcome to the lecture
on inference in regression.
Before we begin talking about inference,
let's just revisit our model so
that it's fresh in our mind.
Our model was that the response,
Yi, is the intercept, beta naught,
plus the slope, beta 1, times
the predictor, X1, plus an error term.
The error term, epsilon i,
is what we're labeling it.
We're going to to assume is
normally distributed mean 0
with the variant sigma squared.
For the time being, we're going to
assume that the true model is known, and
this will be the basis for
most of this class.
I, I'm going to assume that you've seen
some amounts of statistical imprints
previously, so you know what a confidence
interval is and what a hypothesis test is.
Let's also remind ourselves that
the intercept is estimated at
Y bar minus beta 1 hat X bar.
And our beta 1 hat is the correlation
between the predictor and
the response multiplied times
the standard deviation of the response
over the standard
deviation of the predictor.
So let's talk about how we can
perform statistical hypothesis tests
about our parameters.
Let's review a couple of concepts
from statistical inference.
First, statistics of the form, theta hat
minus theta divided by the standard error,
often have the following properties.
First of all,
they're often normally distributed.
And for finite samples, if we replace
the variance with the estimated variance,
they often have a T distribution.
And we'll see this is true in regression
contexts under the assumptions we've made.
This statistic can be used to create
hypothesis tests of theta being
a particular null value versus one of
the logical alternatives of it being less
than, or greater than, or
not equal to this null value.
Or we can create confidence intervals
of the form, estimate plus or
minus a relevant quantile times the
standard error, where q is the relevant
quantile, and we always take the 1 over,
the 1 minus alpha over 2 quantile.
For example, if our alpha is 5%, so
we want a 95% confidence interval,
we take the 97.5th quantile.
And this is, this is either going to
come from a normal contribution or
T distribution.
So hopefully, none of these facts
are news to you after having had
the statistical inference class.
In the regression case,
with IID sampling assumptions for
our normally distributed errors,
inference will
follow along these lines very similarly
to what you saw in that class.
And we're not going to cover at all
asymptotics for regression analysis, but
suffice it to say, it's not mandatory for
the errors to be Gaussian for
our statistical inferences
in regression to hold.
You can appeal to large sample theory,
though it's a little bit more complicated.
So the variance of our regression slope
is actually a highly informative formula.
This is variance of beta one hat,
and it involves two things,
how variable the points are around
the true regression line,
sigma squared, and
how variable my X's are.
Now, I think the numerator, how variable
the points are around the regression line,
I think it's somewhat understandable
as to why that would de,
that we would get better estimates of our
regression slope if that were smaller.
However, it's maybe less intuitive
to understand why we want more
variance in our predictor in order to get
lower variance in our regression slope.
But let's draw some pictures.
If our regressors, our predictors,
are all packed in very tightly,
closely together, then it's clear we're
not going to estimate a very good line.
It could sort of bend around that cloud
of points very easily and get equivalent,
inequivalent fits.
On the other hand,
if we spread our axis out, then we'll
get a better fitted regression line.
We'll get a lower variance for the slope.
Now, it turns out the lowest you can
make that variance is to push half
the observations to one end and the other
half of the observations to another end.
However, you're banking quite a bit then
on having a line in between those two
because you haven't collected any
data to evaluate that property.
Here I also give you
the variance of the intercept.
It's maybe a little less informative
because intercepts are often a little
less of interest than the slopes.
But nonetheless, it, it has this form
right here that we can calculate and
write down.
In both these cases, we replace sigma
squared by its logical estimate,
the 1 over n minus 2 times
the sum of the squared residuals.
We covered that in the last lecture.
It's probably not surprising that our
slope or intercept estimate minus
the true value divided by their standard
error follows a T distribution, and
it has n minus 2 degrees of freedom.
And so this can be used to create
confidence intervals and hypothesis tests.
And we'll go through some examples
here in a couple of slides, but
first I'm just going to show you that
all these results exactly hold, and
it's what R is reporting.